Add documentation for global configuration (#4921)
openshift/odo: website/docs/getting-started/configure.md

---
# Configuring odo global settings

> The global settings for odo can be found in `preference.yaml` file; which is located by default in the `.odo` directory of the user's HOME directory.

Author: Can we override these global settings per component?
What if I want to set BuildTimeout to 300 seconds for one component, but 200 for another, is it possible?

A  different location can be set for the `preference.yaml` by exporting `GLOBALODOCONFIG` in the user environment.

### View the configuration
To view the current configuration, run `odo preference view`.

```shell
$ odo preference view
PARAMETER             CURRENT_VALUE
UpdateNotification
NamePrefix
Timeout
BuildTimeout
PushTimeout
Experimental
Ephemeral
ConsentTelemetry
```

### Set a configuration
To set a value for a preference key, run `odo preference set <key> <value>`.
```shell
$ odo preference set updatenotification false
Global preference was successfully updated
```

### Unset a configuration
To unset a value of a preference key, run `odo preference unset <key>`.
```shell
$ odo preference unset updatednotification
? Do you want to unset updatenotification in the preference (y/N) y
Global preference was successfully updated
```

Unsetting a preference key sets it back to its default value.

> 

Reviewer: You could introduce the `-f` flag used to bypass the confirmation, helpful for using the command into scripts

### Preference Key Table

> | Preference | Description | Default |
> | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
> | UpdateNotification | Control if an update notification is shown or not | True |
> | NamePrefix | Set a default name prefix | Current directory name |
> | Timeout | Timeout for server connection check | 1 second |
> | BuildTimeout | Timeout for waiting for a build of the git component to complete | 300 seconds |
> | PushTimeout | Timeout for waiting for a Pod to come up |  240 seconds |
> | Experimental | Expose features in development/experimental mode | False |
> | Ephemeral | Control whether odo should create a emptyDir volume to store source code | False |
> | ConsentTelemetry | Control whether odo can collect telemetry for the user's odo usage | False |

Reviewer: I think it will be easier to maitain this table if it is correctly indented

```suggestion
| Preference         | Description                                                              | Default                |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------- |
| UpdateNotification | Control if an update notification is shown or not                        | True                   |
| NamePrefix         | Set a default name prefix                                                | Current directory name |
| Timeout            | Timeout for server connection check                                      | 1 second               |
| BuildTimeout       | Timeout for waiting for a build of the git component to complete         | 300 seconds            |
| PushTimeout        | Timeout for waiting for a Pod to come up                                 | 240 seconds            |
| Experimental       | Expose features in development/experimental mode                         | False                  |
| Ephemeral          | Control whether odo should create a emptyDir volume to store source code | False                  |
| ConsentTelemetry   | Control whether odo can collect telemetry for the user's odo usage       | False                  |
```

---
# Configuring odo global settings

The global settings for odo can be found in `preference.yaml` file; which is located by default in the `.odo` directory of the user's HOME directory.

A  different location can be set for the `preference.yaml` by exporting `GLOBALODOCONFIG` in the user environment.

### View the configuration
To view the current configuration, run `odo preference view`.

```shell

> $ odo preference view

Author: Right, thanks for catching that!

PARAMETER             CURRENT_VALUE
UpdateNotification
NamePrefix
Timeout
BuildTimeout
PushTimeout
Experimental
Ephemeral
ConsentTelemetry
```

### Set a configuration
To set a value for a preference key, run `odo preference set <key> <value>`.
```shell
$ odo preference set updatenotification false
Global preference was successfully updated
```

Note that the preference key is case-insensitive.

### Unset a configuration
To unset a value of a preference key, run `odo preference unset <key>`; use `-f` flag to skip the confirmation.
```shell
$ odo preference unset updatednotification
? Do you want to unset updatenotification in the preference (y/N) y
Global preference was successfully updated
```

Unsetting a preference key sets it back to its default value.

### Preference Key Table

| Preference            | Description                                                               | Default                   |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |

> | UpdateNotification    | Control if an update notification is shown or not                         | True                      |

Reviewer 2: Update notification for what exactly?

> | NamePrefix            | Set a default name prefix                                                 | Current directory name    |

Reviewer 2: Name prefix for what exactly?

> | Timeout               | Timeout for server connection check                                       | 1 second                  |

Reviewer 2: Which server exactly? Kubernetes/OpenShift cluster? The `kube-apiserver` within it?

| BuildTimeout          | Timeout for waiting for a build of the git component to complete          | 300 seconds               |

> | PushTimeout           | Timeout for waiting for a Pod to come up                                  |  240 seconds              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| PushTimeout           | Timeout for waiting for the component to come up                                  |  240 seconds              |
```

Reviewer 2: This is because `Pod` is a k8s lingo while `component` is odo lingo

> | Experimental          | Expose features in development/experimental mode                          | False                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Experimental          | Expose features in development/experimental mode                          | True                     |
```

Author: Did you mean to put this comment for Ephemeral? If so, then that has been fixed. The default value for `Experimental` is False.

---
# Configuring odo global settings

The global settings for odo can be found in `preference.yaml` file; which is located by default in the `.odo` directory of the user's HOME directory.

> Example -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example:
```

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<Tabs
defaultValue="Linux"
values={[
{label: 'Linux', value: 'linux'},
{label: 'Windows', value: 'windows'},
{label: 'Mac', value: 'mac'},
]}>

> <TabItem value="linux">/home/user/foo/myProject/.odo/preference.yaml</TabItem>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="linux">/home/userName/.odo/preference.yaml</TabItem>
```

> <TabItem value="windows">C:\\myProject\.odo\preference.yaml</TabItem>

Reviewer 2: Is it really under `C:\myProject` directory? I would be surprised if so. It should be in a user's home dir.

Author: No, I was just going for a different path for some reason. You're right, the default path for preference.yaml is different.

> <TabItem value="linux">/home/foo/.odo/preference.yaml</TabItem>
> <TabItem value="windows">C:\\Users\foo\.odo\preference.yaml</TabItem>
> <TabItem value="mac">/Users/foo/.odo/preference.yaml</TabItem>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="linux">/home/userName/.odo/preference.yaml</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows">C:\\Users\userName\.odo\preference.yaml</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac">/Users/userName/.odo/preference.yaml</TabItem>
```

> <TabItem value="mac">/home/user/foo/myProject/.odo/preference.yaml</TabItem>

Reviewer 2: This is wrong. Path to home dir in macOS different from Linux.

</Tabs>

---
A  different location can be set for the `preference.yaml` by exporting `GLOBALODOCONFIG` in the user environment.

### View the configuration
To view the current configuration, run `odo preference view`.

```shell
odo preference view
```

> Example -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example:
```

```shell
$ odo preference view
PARAMETER             CURRENT_VALUE
UpdateNotification
NamePrefix
Timeout
BuildTimeout
PushTimeout
Experimental
Ephemeral

> ConsentTelemetry

Reviewer 2: Is the `CURRENT_VALUE` column really empty by default? IMO, there should be default values when user runs that command for the first time.

Author: This is something we will need to take up in a different issue. But `CURRENT_VALUE` column can be empty if none of the values are set.

```
### Set a configuration
To set a value for a preference key, run `odo preference set <key> <value>`.
```shell
odo preference set updatenotification false
```

> Example -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example:
```

```shell
$ odo preference set updatenotification false

> Global preference was successfully updated

Reviewer 2: The output is weird. When `-f` flag is not specified, odo should ask the user if they really want to change the value. Like below:
```sh
$ odo preference set updatenotification false
? updatenotification is already set. Do you want to override it in the config No
Aborted by the user
```

I saw same behaviour as this output (odo not asking me to confirm) but I can't reproduce it any more.

Reviewer 2: So my ask here is to change it to the output I have mentioned in my comment.

Author: This seems like a bug to me. `odo preference set` should ask for confirmation.
I think if you unset the value for a key and then set it again, you will be able to reproduce it.

Author: > The output is weird. When `-f` flag is not specified, odo should ask the user if they really want to change the value. Like below:
> 
> ```shell
> $ odo preference set updatenotification false
> ? updatenotification is already set. Do you want to override it in the config No
> Aborted by the user
> ```
> 
> I saw same behaviour as this output (odo not asking me to confirm) but I can't reproduce it any more.

This is not the case when no value is set for a key. In that case, my output is correct.

```
Note that the preference key is case-insensitive.

### Unset a configuration
To unset a value of a preference key, run `odo preference unset <key>`; use `-f` flag to skip the confirmation.
```shell
odo preference unset updatednotification
```

> Example -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example:
```

```shell
$ odo preference unset updatednotification
? Do you want to unset updatenotification in the preference (y/N) y
Global preference was successfully updated
```

> Unsetting a preference key sets it back to its default value.

Reviewer 2: This statement is wrong.
```suggestion
Unsetting a preference key sets it to an empty value in the preference file. odo will use the [default value](./configure#preference-key-table) for such configuration.
```
